Project data: Data originally collected as part of BSc project at Staffordshire Univerity. 
 
Original project title: Does emotion regulation mediate the relationship between depresson symptoms and ADHD traits? 

Data Key: [descriptions of individual scales will be included below] 
Q2_1-_8 = participant consent form 

Q3 = "Please enter your sex at birth" 

Q4 = "Please enter your age in numbers" 

Q5_1-_36 = DERS 

Q9_1-_20 = CES-D 

Q11_1-_60 = Empathy Quotient 

Q17_1-_18 = ASRS V1.1  

Q6,8,10,12,14,16,18 = "Would you like to exit the study and go to the debreif?" [Due to the nature of the study this was included to pass ethic board] 

Q19 = "Did you give the study your full attention?"

Q22 = "I am happy to submit my answers". [No identifying data was collected such as participant ID to allow for complete anonyminity so withdrawal after submission was not possible]

EQ questionnaire was removed. 

Explainations of scales include extracts from final manuscript included in the docu subfolder  
 
#ASRS V1.1
The Adult ADHD Self-report Scale (ASRS) was constructed by Adler, 
Spencer, Faraone, Kessler, Howes, Biederman and Secnik (2006) who also assessed it 
for reliability and validity. The scale measures ADHD traits using 18 items based on the 
DSM-IV criteria of ADHD with a total score of 90, although it is not a standalone diagnostic 
measure. Participants select a response from a score of 0-4 (Never, Rarely, Sometimes, 
Often, Very Often). It can also be analysed using the subscales for Inattention which 
consists of nine items, such as “How often do you make careless mistakes when you have 
to work on a boring or difficult project?” and Hyperactivity-impulsivity which also consists of 
nine items, such as “How often do you fidget or squirm with your hands or feet when you 
have to sit down for a long time?” (Lundervold et al., 2016). For the purpose of this study, 
the scale was scored by adding all the responses together, with a higher score interpreted 
as a greater presence of ADHD symptoms.

#DERS
The Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale (DERS) was contrasted by Gratz 
and Roemer (2004) and has been assessed for reliability and validity. It was designed to 
assess multiple elements of emotion dysregulation. The DERS contains 36 items with a 
total score of 180 and participants select a response of 1-5 (Almost never, Sometimes,
About half the time, Most of the time, Almost always). A higher score of the scale suggests 
greater difficulties in emotion regulation and can be used as a total score by reverse 
coding the appropriate items and adding the scores together or can be broken down into 
six subscales with an individual score per subscale. The example questions from the six 
subscales are as follows: Non-acceptance “When I’m upset, I feel guilty for feeling that 
way”; Goals “When I’m upset, I have difficulty getting work done”; Impulse “When I’m 
upset, I have difficulty controlling my behaviours”; Aware “I pay attention to how I feel 
(reverse)”; Strategies “When I’m upset, I believe that wallowing in it is all I can do”; and 
Clarity “I have no idea how I am feeling”. For the purpose of this study, the overall score
was used.

#CES-D
Centre for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) was 
constructed by Radloff (1977) to measure depression symptoms in non-clinical sample 
and has been tested for reliability and validity (Hann, Winter, & Jacobsen, 1999). It 
includes 20 items with a maximum score of 60 and participants select a response from: 
Rarely (Less than a day), Sometimes (1-2 days), Occasionally (3-4 days) and Most of the 
time (5-7 days). The score is the sum of the 20 questions including reverse scoring four of 
the questions. A higher score suggests greater depressive symptomology. It includes 
items such as “My sleep was restless”. It has no subscales.

#Empathy Quotient 
The Empathy Quotient (EQ) (appendix H) was constructed by Baron-Cohen and 
Wheelwright (2004)and was designed to measure empathy in adults and has been tested 
for reliability and validity. It contains 40 empathy questions and 20 filler questions with a 
maximum score of 80 and is scored by the sum of all items. Participants select a response
from Strongly agree, Slightly agree, Slightly disagree and Strongly disagree and responses 
are scored either 2, 1 or 0. A higher score represents higher levels of empathy. It includes 
empathy items, such as; “I tend to get emotionally involved with a friend's problems”. 
